README 

Source: Carla P. Gomes (gomes@cs.cornell.edu)

List of files: 


qwh.order10.holes10.pls      qwh.order40.holes560.pls
qwh.order10.holes100.pls     qwh.order5.holes10.pls
qwh.order100.holes10000.pls  qwh.order5.holes25.pls
qwh.order18.holes120.pls     qwh.order50.holes750.bal.pls
qwh.order20.holes400.pls     qwh.order50.holes825.bal.pls
qwh.order30.holes316.pls     qwh.order60.holes1080.bal.pls
qwh.order30.holes320.pls     qwh.order60.holes1152.bal.pls
qwh.order30.holes900.pls     qwh.order60.holes1440.pls
qwh.order33.holes381.pls     qwh.order60.holes1620.pls
qwh.order35.holes405.pls     qwh.order60.holes3600.pls
qwh.order40.holes1600.pls    qwh.order70.holes2450.pls
qwh.order40.holes528.pls     qwh.order70.holes2940.pls
qwh.order40.holes544.pls     qwh.order70.holes4900.pls


These are instances of the Quasigroup With Holes (QWH) problem. 

QWH is the problem of assigning colors to the H holes of a quasigroup
or latin square of order N. A latin square or quasigroup is a N X N
matrix on N symbols (or colors) such that no symbols are repeated in
each row/column of the matrix. 

qwh.orderN.holesH.pls - QWH instance of order N, with H holes. 
 	H <= N^2; 
	When H=N^2 - "empty" QWH -  all the cells of a latin square 
		     of order N correspond to holes, which corresponds to
		     generating a quasigroup  of order N from scratch,
		     without any preassigned colors;

qwh.orderN.holesH.bal.pls - balanced QWH instance -in a balanced
	instances, the number of holes per row/column is (approximately)
	constant. 


Note that empty QWH instances are easy and in fact one can use a
cyclic construction to fill in all the holes. However, when using a
general algorithm (e.g., local search or backtrack search) such
instances may be difficult due to the size of the encoding (for
example, that is the case  for Boolean Satisfiability).
Balanced QWH instances are much harder than  QWH random instances.


For more details see:

	 Problem Structure in the Presence of Perturbations, 
			Carla Gomes and Bart Selman, Proc. AAAI-97, 
	 Generating Satisfiable Instances, 
			Achlioptas et al., Proc. AAAI-00, 
	 Balance and Filtering in Structured Satisfiable Problems, 
			Kautz et al. Proc. IJCAI01, and 
	 Completing Quasigroups or Latin Squares: 
		A Structured Graph Coloring Problem, 
  			Gomes and Shmoys, Proc. of Computational Symposium
			on Graph Coloring and Generalizations, 2002

pdf and postscript format available from:
http://www.cs.cornell.edu/gomes/papers.htm.


Level 1:


"empty" QWH instances

qwh.order5.holes25.pls
qwh.order10.holes100.pls    
qwh.order20.holes400.pls    
qwh.order30.holes900.pls    


qwh.order5.holes10.pls 
qwh.order10.holes10.pls   
qwh.order18.holes120.pls  
qwh.order30.holes316.pls  
qwh.order30.holes320.pls  

Level 2


"empty" instances

qwh.order40.holes1600.pls
qwh.order60.holes3600.pls
qwh.order70.holes4900.pls
qwh.order100.holes10000.pls

qwh.order35.holes405.pls      
qwh.order40.holes528.pls
qwh.order40.holes544.pls
qwh.order40.holes560.pls
qwh.order60.holes1440.pls
qwh.order60.holes1620.pls
qwh.order70.holes2450.pls
qwh.order70.holes2940.pls


Level 3


Balanced instances:

qwh.order33.holes381.bal.pls

Level 4
  
qwh.order50.holes825.bal.pls


Level 5

Not solved by any solver - "Open" (June 1, 2002)

qwh.order50.holes750.bal.pls
qwh.order60.holes1080.bal.pls
qwh.order60.holes1152.bal.pls











